I also heard what both of us said earlier about, 
you know, what exactly are the 
Bailiwick rules for the DNS server, so when does 
the DNS server accept a reply? 
If you want to know the details of at least a 
situation as it existed at the 
time of the Kominsky attack, have a close look at 
the paper called the 
Hitchhiker's Guide to DNS Task Force. There it 
has for all of the popular DNS 
servers of the day, right, so bind and unbound 
and some others, the exact 
rules. So what is it that the DNS server will 
accept? When will it accept the 
authority section and when will it accept the 
additional information that is in 
that report? So I think that might be useful for 
you. All right. I don't think 
that it's referenced on the slide anywhere, 
right, so that paper, the 
Hitchhiker's Guide. So then maybe I'll just stick 
it in. Yeah. Maybe if you 
have an announcement. I was thinking about it, 
but I'm not sure. Okay, I think 
I just have a couple of slides on IRR. So I 
briefly mentioned the Internet 
Routing Registry last time. I mentioned the 
popular Microsoft attack. I 
uploaded these slides online. There's not much to 
say about the Internet 
Routing Registry except that it still exists 
today. It's still widely used. So 
when you actually do a holistic lookup on a given 
address, it looks like this. 
I just looked up the 1337 prefix. Of course, it 
shows information that you 
should already know. This is the prefix owned by 
the university and so on. And 
some of this information is basically what is 
fetched from this IRR database. 
It shows – there should be a data set here. But 
anyway, some of this 
information comes from the IRR, which is a very 
simple database. In order to 
announce a route today, you need a BGP speaker, 
which is a fancy way of saying 
you need a router that speaks BGP. You need to 
set up an IRR object. And 
there's also a blog post from someone who 
recently tried to run his own 
autonomous system. It's very nice. It's about two 
pages long. It tells you how 
difficult it is to run your own autonomous 
system. At the very basic level, you 
need an IP address prefix. You have to convince a 
registrar to give you not an 
IP address but a prefix. That's a bit 
challenging. And second thing is you need 
to have the money to run a router. And more 
importantly, you need to have some 
amount of clout to deal with another AS. In other 
words, having a router or 
having a prefix does not necessarily mean that 
you can announce a prefix. You 
have to figure out where to announce, who will 
accept the announcement, and so 
on. Yes? Will you post a link to that blog post? 
Yeah, I will post a link. It's 
a series of blog posts, but it's very nice. It's 
very nice. It also talks about 
some of the politics from different registrars, 
who is easy, who is difficult. 
I think in the U.S. it's much easier to run your 
own AS because autonomous 
systems are usually given for organizations. So 
the question is who is 
considered an organization? And I think if I 
remember correctly in the blog 
post it says that in the U.S. it's much easier to 
call yourself an individual 
as an organization. Whereas in Europe it's a 
little more difficult. Anyway. And 
you need to set up an IRR object in this 
database. Specifically it's called an 
IRR routing record. And this is what a routing 
record will look like. It 
basically tells you what is a route that you own, 
basically the prefix that you 
own, and origin. Origin basically is the owner of 
that route. Here it actually 
says AS1103 is the AS number. AS numbers are 
usually prefixed with the two 
letters AS. Even though the protocol only looks 
at the numbers. And you need to 
host this IRR record in your RIR. RIR is Regional 
Internet Registry or TRANSIT. 
And there are a couple of databases that are very 
famous. One is called the 
RADB, the other one is ALDB. So when you do a 
host, it will specifically 
request one of those two databases to be used. So 
when you do a host by 
default, I think if you do it in Europe, the host 
utility will pick quote 
unquote default servers to query. In Europe, if 
you do anywhere from here, it 
will actually query the RIPE address, the RIPE 
status. RIPE is the, I forgot 
what exactly it stands for, the action. But RIPE 
is the European Authority for 
Internet Prefixes. It's very large. It's very 
nice actually. But you can also 
specifically query. And it's here in Amsterdam, 
right? So that's also... They 
have presence in Amsterdam. Yes, you're right. As 
I also mentioned, Amsterdam 
hosts one of the world's largest Internet 
exchanges. I don't know exactly where 
the location is. At some point of time, a 
colleague who used to be at the WU 
promised me a tour of the Amsitz. Unfortunately, 
he left before he could give 
me that tour. But if you have anyone who can 
actually show you around the 
building, you should take the offer. It's really 
nice. It's one of the most 
secure facilities. Or at least you hope it should 
be. But again, let me not say 
too much about that. So when we look at something 
as output, we can actually 
see that the information comes from the data 
that's actually there. WU has 
still out a lot of information. If you have time, 
you can go through all of 
that. Sometimes it will actually spit out the 
administrator's e-mail ID. As in, 
if you have any complaints about a prefix, who is 
the person to contact you? 
These days, no one lists their e-mail address. 
Because this used to be an easy 
way to spam a network element. It shows even the 
creative ways to go to spam an 
ID. Okay, so you've registered the ASN, the AS 
number of the IRR. So IRR's ASN 
record will look like this. It's basically 
saying, what is the autonomous 
number? So the previous IRR routing record that 
we had, it basically said, what 
is the prefix and who is the owner? This one is 
an ASN record where it's 
saying, what is the autonomous number and what is 
the autonomous system 
number's name? And then it will give you usually 
a couple of details about when 
it was created, when it was last modified. 
Sometimes, these days, it will have 
a mailing address. A mailing address is usually a 
front for some sort of a 
proxy so that you can't spam them. So if you send 
an e-mail, it will ask you to 
do some checks so that it will verify that you're 
not an automated bot trying 
to send an e-mail. Once again, the whomis output 
has these... Oh, okay. This is 
the ASN for the record for the ASN that you own. 
So this is the AS1103. And 
your upstream ISP, which means a tool that is 
providing your AS connectivity or 
your upstream provider, they'll have another ASN 
record in which your AS will 
actually be listed. So this is basically... I 
don't want to make it sound like 
this is very similar to the chain of trust that 
we have in BKI or the one that 
we have in DNSF, because it's not that robust. 
But the point is there should be 
some sort of a chain that tells you, even if you 
have an ASN record, who 
provides you connectivity or who's your provider 
or who's your people. And if 
that doesn't exist, once again, the checks will 
tell you that people will not 
accept your bot. IRS still exists today. It's a 
very new security model. It has 
a lot of stale and missing records. It used to be 
hosted on public FTP servers, 
anyone can credit. And, again, there's not much 
incentive to keep it up to 
date, even though it is still widely used. There 
have been some efforts to 
clean up this IRS database because it's still 
widely used. But it's a, you 
know, it's a hidden mess. But it's a treasure 
trove of data because you can 
actually see who's updating the records, who's 
not updating, and how much of 
the negative information is there. Okay. Let's go 
to something that works for 
once. So the biggest problem in BGP is that you 
don't have any mechanism in the 
protocol to verify the legitimacy of an 
announcement. If someone announces, 
hey, I own this prefix 1337, there's no way for 
you to ensure or check whether 
the announcement is being originated by a 
legitimate party. I'll be the owner. 
We can't verify that. You can't retrofit BGP to 
do that, right? You can't 
actually take BGP and then change it. You could 
design your own protocol and 
then say, hey, this is BGP++, so to speak, and 
that has the features. But the 
issue there is, you know, who will deploy it? You 
want everyone on the internet 
to deploy. Or you want your protocol to be 
backward-compatible. It has to be, 
otherwise it won't work. But if it is 
backward-compatible, once again, you are 
stuck in this issue of incentives. Like, whatever 
I'm doing, if it works, why 
would I care? So you need an out-of-band 
mechanism, and RPKI is one such thing. 
So here is how RPKI works in a nutshell. So let's 
go back to this illustration. 
You know, there's an AS1103. This is CERF, you 
know, the provider for the mean. 
Announces a prefix saying, hey, this is who I am. 
The idea is that, you know, I 
mean, again, it's not rocket science. It's based 
on what we've already seen in 
DNSSEC and based on what we've seen in RPKI. The 
idea is that you have a 
cryptographic signature, unforgeable signature, 
that's it. That basically signs 
this announcement together. You need to sign both 
the prefix and the 
originator. And you need to have a mechanism to 
ensure that once you sign it, 
hey, is the signature a valid one? Basically, 
there must be a mechanism for you 
to first of all figure out who owns this 
signature, right? And then you'll walk 
some sort of a chain of trust to figure out, hey, 
can I trust it? This sort of 
record, you know, where you sign the route and 
the origin ASN, you know, 
generated a cryptographic signature, it's called 
a route origin authorization 
record, or ROA. Key thing to note about RPKI is 
that RPKI is only trying to 
secure route origin authorizations. What it means 
is it only allows you to 
check for any given prefix is the owner of the 
prefix, as in the one who 
originated, is that person allowed to originate? 
That's the only thing it's 
checking. It cannot check the path. Does that 
make sense? What if A pushed over 
to B, and then B pushed over to C, and B would 
prefix that with A to A? It 
would check that prefix against B instead of A, 
but A won't. What I'm saying 
is, remember that whenever you have 
announcements, BGP announcements, when you 
think about BGP announcements, there is a prefix 
and there is a path associated 
with that prefix, right? And as the announcement 
keeps propagating among the 
routers, among the autonomous systems, every 
autonomous system will prefix 
itself, or prepend itself to that AS path. This 
is what we saw. But nobody 
changes the origin. If you're trying to change 
the origin, I mean, you could, 
but if you're trying to change the origin, what 
you're claiming is that you own 
the prefix. That's what it means. If you're the 
first in that AS path list, it 
means that you are the owner of that prefix. RTKI 
is only designed to check 
whether the origin of a given prefix is 
legitimate or not. That's the only 
thing it can do. So if you want to generate a 
signature, obviously you need to 
have a public-private key pair, so in this case 
the AS owns that, and then you 
use a private key to sign it, to generate it, and 
the public key is posted in 
some place that I can look up and I can check. So 
that should be obvious. Now 
the question is, how do you verify the identity 
of the signer? So this is, 
again, once again, not rocket science. It's very 
easy. Once I tell you that 
it's a cryptographic record, you need to have a 
set of keys. Once you have a 
set of keys, then the question is, okay, anybody 
can do this. How do you verify 
the identity of the signer? Same questions that 
we asked in DNSSEC and RTKI. So 
you need a chain of trust, and how do you 
establish a chain of trust? In 
DNSSEC, what we did was that there was a 
hierarchy that came for free. Every 
subdomain belongs to a TLB, TLB belongs to a 
root, and so on. So the hierarchy 
came for free. Here, the hierarchy sort of 
exists. The way it exists is because 
the question is, an AS owns a set of prefixes, 
and the question is, who gave 
you the prefixes? Prefixes usually come from Git 
that are allocated to you by 
regional registries, or RIRs. Basically, the 
hierarchy is just two-step. You 
own a prefix, your prefix must have come from 
either another network or from a 
regional registry, and the registry basically is 
your trust anchor. So if 
you're in Europe, right, NCC will be your pen and 
so on, so to speak. And RIR 
will, so it's the same thing, right? So RIR will 
have a record that actually 
tells you, oh, it's fine, you know. So you 
basically query the public key, and 
then there must be a mechanism by which you can 
query whether that public key 
is indeed owned by this AS. Just like in WebPKI 
and DNSSEC, you know, once you 
go to the trust anchor, there's no more checks 
for it, you'll have to take the 
metrics from it. Yes? How many RIRs are there? 
Five. It's not as bad as in, you 
know, the WebPKI or DNSSEC, you know, there's not 
a lot of authorities, very 
few actors. That is not going to change anytime 
soon. But RIRs are not the only 
organizations from whom you can get an address 
prefix, right? The reason is, if 
you are as old as, let's say, MIT or HP, right, 
these organizations at one 
point in time, they actually were allocated slash 
aids. This is IPv4. Long 
back, we thought that, okay, it's fine to give 
institutions like MIT a slash 
aid. Who cares? We have a lot of IP addresses. 
But these days, IP address, v4 
address is a commodity. It's a very pricey one, 
right? It's as expensive as 
buying real estate in Amsterdam. In fact, it 
could be pricier depending on the 
prefix you're looking for. And so, there is a 
market, although one shouldn't 
exist, right, because IPv4 is being phased out, 
so you want to move to v6. But 
there is a very thriving market for selling v4 
addresses. So there are IPv4 
resellers, so to speak. So that could create a 
couple of levels of clarity. But 
once again, it's not anywhere as close to the 
WebPKI of the DNS server. So 
within these levels of hierarchy, the person who 
got the address based on the 
RIR assigns it themselves, and then... There must 
be a mechanism by which you 
must be able to discover these chains. Otherwise, 
having an assigned 
certificate doesn't have any function. And do 
RIRs still have any IPv4 
addresses to give out? Oh, they do. They do. Even 
today, they do. But the pool 
is coming down, you know. They keep saying... 
Every once in a while, you have 
this announcement saying, oh, we've run out of 
v4. Not technically true, but 
they don't want to be out of v4. So there is very 
less incentive for v4. So you 
need to have a strong reason. What's the cheapest 
slash v4 I could buy? I don't 
know. It's a good question. You should figure it 
out. So I'll link to this blog 
post. Maybe there are some numbers there. I have 
kind of the inverse of his 
question. What are the more expensive prefixes 
within the same... Obviously, if 
they're the same length, is a certain prefix more 
desirable than another one? I 
don't know. It depends on... So I think price is 
typically based on size. And 
these days, the size of the prefix that you can 
get, v4 prefix that you can 
get, is very restricted. If you ask for a really 
large prefix, regardless of 
how much you're willing to pay for it, it will 
raise a lot of red flags. Today, 
if you want a large IPv4 prefix, that is usually 
not what we're facing. 
Occasionally, depending on the prefix you're 
looking for, I mean, unlike 
license plates, there's no vanity here, right? 
There's not much you can brag 
about. Those days have long gone. Like the 
Cloudflare... Yeah, so... Okay, 
I'll... Maybe there are a couple of use cases for 
bragging. But those are very 
few. And Cloudflare will do... So Cloudflare 
actually wrote a paper saying how 
not to... How you could reuse as many v4s as 
possible. Because a v4 that they 
hold on to is... It's very small. And it's very, 
very expensive. Okay. BGP has 
got nothing to do with... Yes, did you call? 
Registries fall under the 
authority of ICANN, or is it another 
organization? Or are they completely 
independent? What's the organizational structure 
there? That's a better... I 
mean, ICANN has probably...

I don't know more about these politics than I do. 
ICANN still has control over 
a lot of things, but I think for all purposes, 
practical purposes, RIRs are 
autonomous. Do they have a subset of the IPv4 
space they can give out? Yes. Who 
gives them that? They already have an allocation 
given to them. There is no 
more allocation of v4s yet happening. Oh yeah, 
but they have to get that 
allocation from... they can't always 
independently decide to give out 
whatever... So that came initially from ICANN. I 
don't know if ICANN still has 
control over the v6 or how exactly that is done. 
That's a very good question. I 
don't know. There was actually a proposal to... 
This was two years ago. Maybe 
Bert knows more about this. There was a 
discussion of whether ICANN should 
still have control over prefixes because it was 
based in the US and people had 
very mixed feelings about what kind of authority 
the US government could have 
set on these allocations. But I think it's still 
with ICANN. But it's a very... 
RIRs today... What to say? There's not much 
politics at that level. Once RIRs 
start allocating, that's where things start 
getting messy. Anyway, certificate 
databases are outside of BGP. BGP has got nothing 
to do with BGP. BGP does not 
even know anything about these certificates. This 
verification validation that 
we are talking about has got nothing to do with 
BGP. Certificate databases are 
outside of BGP, same as with IRR. IRR is also a 
third-party thing. But unlike 
IRRs, which could be maintained by pretty much 
anyone, and there were some IRRs 
that, like I said, were hosted on FTP servers 
that some of you might find a 
fact because the passwords are easily guessable, 
but RPKI is not that bad. 
Another way to think about it is that RIRs act as 
CAs and also as trust 
anchors. So how does this thing work? So you have 
a router, obviously you own a 
prefix, and you want to secure that prefix using 
RPKI. Basically, you want to 
ensure that tomorrow, whatever Pakistan Telecom 
does, I keep coming to that, or 
let's say it's an Indian Telecom, just to be 
fair, you know, Bharti, Airtel, or 
Tata. So whatever anyone does, even whether it's 
intentional and you don't want 
them to announce your prefix, or if they do, you 
want neighboring agencies not 
to accept that. So how could you do that? Well, 
so you have a router, you're 
advertising your prefixes through that router to 
your audience, and you have to 
run what is called a validator. You can think of 
it as a software that runs in 
a commodity server. It's irrelevant how you 
actually do it. But ideally, you 
want that validator to be very close to your 
router. And the validator will 
periodically contact the RIRs. It has to contact 
all five RIRs because the RIRs 
are independent databases. Each one will maintain 
a separate set of RPKI 
objects because, obviously, they each have their 
own prefixes that they're 
trying to distribute. And depending on who gets 
the prefixes from them, they'll 
register the RPKI objects with them. RPKI objects 
basically mean they'll 
register their hash or their public keys and so 
on. And there's a simple 
protocol between the router and this validator. 
For the most part, this 
validator will not actually listen on any public 
IP. You won't be able to 
query, you won't be able to see it. That's for 
obvious reasons. You want to 
hide this as much as possible. This is not 
something you want exposed. It's 
only business as two things. It interacts with 
the router. It tells something 
to the router. We'll see what it does. And it 
actually fetches these RIRs. It 
queries these RIRs. So when you get a new route, 
observe that you're not 
talking about packets. When a router is trying to 
figure out how to route a 
given traffic as a packet, that's not when RPKI 
comes into picture. RPKI only 
comes into picture when you're trying to accept 
an announcement. That should be 
obvious. So when you get a new route 
announcement, what you do is basically use 
a protocol to ask the validator, is it valid? If 
it is valid, then it basically 
tells you yes or no. And how does it do it? It 
basically checks against all 
five. So it basically says, okay, I'm going to 
take a look at the signature 
that you have. I'm going to see which one of 
these databases declares that the 
signature is a valid one. You must have from one 
of them. So basically, this is 
your walking on the chain, one-step chain. And if 
there is a proper one, it 
basically says yay, otherwise it says nay, and 
you're done. A route origin 
authorization looks something like this. A common 
system sign is a ROA. A ROA 
should contain every sub-prefix, every prefix of 
your own, goes without saying. 
The prefixes that your network owns could be more 
than one. And they don't 
always have to be overlapping or contiguous. They 
could be a disparate set of 
prefixes. You could think of yourself buying 
something in 2020, and then three 
years later, you realize that you want more, you 
buy another prefix. They need 
not be contiguous or adjacent. And you want to 
put them all together and then 
sign. This is your property, so to speak, and you 
want to claim that you have 
ownership of them. Interestingly, and this opened 
a lot of security issues, 
you'll see why. Prefixes do vary a lot. So we 
saw, for instance, that you 
remember the AS-7007 incident, right? The very 
first prefix hijack incident 
where an AS tried to disaggregate prefixes and 
accidentally leaked that to the 
entire world, right? But there are reasons why 
you do want to disaggregate, 
because disaggregation gives you control over 
specifying where traffic enters 
your network. Sometimes you want to do 
aggregation, which is you have a bunch 
of contiguous prefixes, you want to aggregate 
them together. Why? Because you 
want to save space. But you don't want that much 
control over specifying how 
traffic enters. So in order to provide for 
disaggregation or aggregation of 
prefixes, RTKI has the ROA objects have the 
facility for you to specify a 
range. So you could say, look, my prefix is 
130.37.0.0, and then what I can do 
is I'm allowed to specify as large a prefix as 16 
and as small as slash 24, 
because that gives me flexibility. Because if you 
only specify 16, RTKI 
validations are based on exact length, right? So 
if you claim that, look, I'm 
the owner of 130.37.16, it protects you from 
someone doing a sub-prefix hijack 
against you by announcing a slash 24. If someone 
announces a slash 24, the 
validator, when it actually compares an 
announcement with the RTKI object that 
you have, will say, look, no one is allowed to 
actually advertise a slash 24 
because a slash 16 is owned by someone. But if 
you do want to have the 
flexibility to disaggregate, then you need to 
specify a max length attribute, 
which is basically saying, I own slash 16, and 
the max length is 24, which 
means that I can break that 16 all the way up to 
a 24. It's obvious that if you 
do this, then it means that you are basically 
saying that every single 
sub-prefix under slash 16 all the way to a 24 is 
a valid announcement. Also, 
it's like a double-edged sword, right? Meaning, 
if you do a 16's height of 24, 
it means that I own 16. And every single 
sub-prefix under the 16 all the way to 
the longest one being a slash 24 is still a valid 
one, as long as it carries a 
signature. Okay? So it prevents prefix and 
sub-prefix hijacking, but again, 
with the caveat that it only checks for origin. 
So you have to keep that in 
mind. So it still does not prevent AS in the 
middle attacks, which means that 
if you're careful in how you try to do hijacks or 
sniff on the traffic, you 
could still get away with it, and there's nothing 
that RTK can do to protect 
that. There are other issues. This is something 
that may not be obvious, that 
even if someone were to announce an announcement 
that actually does not 
accompany with a signature or actually it's a 
wrong announcement, it's an 
invalid announcement, it's still difficult to 
enforce a route or an AS to do 
something about it because the network using RPKI 
and the certificate authority 
as in the regional internet registry or your 
trust anchor need not be the same 
jurisdiction, so to speak. There's technically 
nothing that prevents you from 
having an autonomous system in the US or as in 
having your customers in the US 
and getting a prefix from Brian. You have to show 
some, it depends on different 
RIRs, you need to have some presence of your 
organization in Europe or 
something like that. But as long as those things 
are valid, your actual 
customers could be actually in the US. So which 
means that if you do something 
really funny and someone wants to shut down, 
withdraw your prefix or basically 
prevent you from announcing the prefix, you can't 
really do that because RIRs 
are sitting in Europe, so jurisdictions don't 
exactly overlap. And it has come 
up in a couple of cases that they wanted to do 
something and the RIRs were 
doing anything. So that's the high level overview 
of RPKI. Yes? So what you 
were saying at last was that some AS could not 
sync all your traffic because 
EGB will verify with the RIR, which is in maybe a 
different jurisdiction. We 
will see. So we did a study on trying to see who 
adopts and who does 
validation, as usual. But for once, I'm going to 
give you an answer that's in 
the positive. RPKI is widely adopted and it looks 
like people are doing well. 
What I want to correct about what you said is 
that as long as every AS in the 
Internet runs a validator and the validator is 
keeping itself up to date and 
does the check, you could run a validator, but 
you do not do any checks. But if 
you're already like a country that has control 
over their AS, you can also let 
them, couldn't you just say, if we publish this 
route and sync all it, then 
accept it? Accept the... You could. Okay. You 
could. The funny thing is this. 
So suppose your validator tells you the 
announcement is invalid. What does the 
router do? So there are two options always, 
right? There's a soft fail and 
there's a hard fail. The hard fail would mean the 
router simply says, I'm not 
going to accept this announcement and drops it. 
And soft fail is basically 
accepting it. What do you think they do? They 
probably accept it. Yeah. At 
least... We did this in 2018, 2019. At least in 
2019, there was a huge debate 
about whether they should implement a hard fail. 
But today, I think they're 
moving towards a hard fail, which means routers 
will stop. The reason why you 
can't do a hard fail, especially with RPCI, is 
that unlike most things, I mean, 
for instance, when you don't accept a 
certificate, you can configure it. The 
control of overriding the check is with you. You 
could install a different 
browser or you could pass a flag for Chrome to 
say, ignore the certificate 
errors. I know what I'm doing. In Firefox, it 
will post a warning and you can 
say, ignore access. Unlike that, if RPKI... 
Everyone implements RPKI. Everyone 
slowly starts implementing RPKI. And implement 
hard fail, you don't even get 
the route, which means that there's nothing you 
can do. Route is the basic 
thing. After that, once you have the route, then 
you can think about 
applications, security of endpoints, and all 
that. If you take the hard fail 
approach here, it's not just one user. An entire 
community of users could 
suddenly lose visibility How often is it that an 
AS has only one link to 
another AS? That's a very good question. To 
repeat the question a slightly 
different way, every AS has to be connected to 
another AS or either gets 
connectivity or peers. How often it's the case 
that an AS only peers with one? 
There are lots of ASs. So when an AS peers with 
only one other AS, it's usually 
referred to as a stub AS. It has a separate 
meaning. There are lots of stubs. 
University networks. Almost all university 
networks are stub ASs. You typically 
have one connectivity. There are very few 
universities where you have multiple 
connectivity. Even beyond universities, there are 
lots of small networks for 
whom one peering suffices. So there are lots. I 
would say a few thousand. Even 
if you have multiple providers, that still 
doesn't give you as much resilience 
as you think it does. Keep in mind, ultimately 
what designs resilience in the 
internet is if you have completely separate paths 
between two endpoints. This 
is why I said you have to be very careful about 
traceroute outputs. When we 
discuss a crossfire attack, you can't really look 
at the links and then say, 
oh, I'm going to inundate the link because that 
link is not exactly a physical 
one. It's a logical one. There was a fire 
accident long back, almost 15 years 
ago in Boston. You can look up the Boston tunnel 
fire. There was a tunnel. I 
think there was an accident. We caught fire. The 
interesting thing is that in 
the US, fiber optic cables between routers 
usually run by the side of the roads 
or rail networks. So when this tunnel caught 
fire, it actually damaged a 
conduit that was running through the tunnel. Now 
Boston is a hub for many large 
companies and a lot of them actually pay a lot of 
money to have connectivity 
with multiple providers. Why? Because if your 
business relies today, everyone's 
business relies on having good internet 
connectivity, you want to make sure 
that no one can accidentally or intentionally 
bring your network down. So you 
pay money to have multiple networks. So people 
have paid money up to AT&T and 
Verizon or Cogent to get multiple connectivity. 
But what they failed to verify 
was where the cables were running. So regardless 
of how many networks they were 
paying money to, all of the networks were running 
the cable to a single conduit 
that was running through the tunnel. So it didn't 
matter how much of resilience 
you had on paper. Physical connectivity was just 
that one conduit. And finding 
these conduits and figuring out true resilience 
is very hard. We don't have the 
tools to do that. Network providers do have that 
information, but they won't 
tell you because it's their best interest not to 
reveal that. Okay. I'm going 
to quickly go through RTKI adoption. It's a study 
that I was part of. The only 
one so far that I've ever done that has a 
possible result. The title of the 
paper was is RTKI is coming of age? It's 
basically saying that we are actually 
moving towards an environment where we could 
implement heart fails. So this is 
one of the very early work that said that we 
should actually think strongly 
about dropping announcements that are invalid. So 
I'm not going to go through 
all the results of the study because it's very 
easy to follow. And this is also 
something that's easier for you to do, for anyone 
to do, because you don't need 
special access to get these ROA records from 
different IRs. The protocols are 
very well defined and the database access is 
actually open to the public. So if 
you know a bit of Python, you can pick up a bunch 
of libraries and do this by 
yourself, which is really nice. Most networking 
research is like that. As long 
as you reasonably good at one or two languages, 
then a bit of domain knowledge 
will get you a long way. So we analysed ROA 
records. We analysed BGP 
announcements from 3,300 BGP collectors. BGP 
collectors is a fancy way of 
saying there is a server that actually is 
connected to a router and so the job 
is to look at the announcement and see if it's 
invited to a lot of people. 
There's lots of collectors that are out there. 
There's a famous project started 
well before I started doing computer science by 
the University of Oregon in the 
US. It's called the Route Views. And as the name 
implies, it gives you a view 
of all the routes on the internet. Periodically, 
they basically have a bunch of 
these servers running in different networks. They 
collect the logs and then 
they dump it into a file. It's a huge archive, 
but it actually tells you what 
routes are available on the internet. It's very, 
very interesting. Okay, so the 
validator software, I think there's a bunch of 
them. These days, Rust is the 
coolest one, so there's a couple of them in Rust. 
And there's Go. And the nice 
thing is that this is called relying party 
software. It downloads and validates 
the RTK object. This is what is running in the 
validator. Write's RT software, 
relying party software, is also available as open 
source on GitHub. So it's 
very nice. You can download it and check it. It's 
good because they want people 
to have more eyes on it so that they can get 
security on it.

It converts them into validated row of payloads, 
VRPs, if there's a VRP it 
basically says an AS and a row of prefix. It's 
always a row of prefix even if I 
say a prefix because RTK is only about route 
origin validation. There's a 
prefix lint and a max lint. Sometimes a prefix 
lint and a max lint are exactly 
the same. But if the AS wants a little more 
flexibility, you'll see a larger 
prefix lint and a smaller prefix lint. A smaller 
prefix lint means a larger 
network and a larger value of max lint means a 
smaller prefix. There are some 
details about what we collected. I've already 
told you that I collaborate a lot 
with Archimax and we have a lot of data from 
Archimax. So this is another thing 
that systems are very good at. Like I said, 
systems have thousands of servers 
and different networks, so it's very easy for 
them to collect this beautifully 
beautiful network and dump it in one location. So 
as you can see, Archimax has 
a very rich viewpoint. This is very hard to get 
for end users like you and I, 
but modular net at best is easy. These are the 
number of records that we 
obtained. They don't look that very interesting, 
but in terms of the percentage 
of ASs, it's still good. By the way, in the 
Internet, networking researchers 
usually get excited when a protocol is getting 
implemented by at least one 
person with ASs. It still is a lot. And depending 
on what the AS is, it could 
mean millions of users. If the one person, for 
instance, contains a larger 
protocol than 8080, usually the people are very 
happy. These are some of the 
largest networks. So WriteNCC, almost all of the 
credit for RPKI adoption 
should go to WriteNCC. Because number one, 
they've been the most vocal 
supporter for RPKI from the beginning. They 
actually co-wrote some of the RFCs. 
And not just that, they actually published some 
of the earliest relying party 
software and put it on GitHub so that other 
people could use it. They had free 
sessions for administrators, network 
administrators from around the world to 
tell them how to configure RPKI, how to run your 
validator, if you don't trust 
their code base, how to run your own, and so on 
and so forth. All for free. So 
it's really nice. So there's this plot of the 
paper. You can take a look at it. 
It's a very easy paper. Measurement papers are 
usually very easy. So you have a 
bit of background, and once you go through the 
background, it's plot after 
plot. So it's easy to follow. This one is 
basically showing the date. We did a 
multi-year study. And this is basically showing 
different... Each y-axis is 
showing... The first one is showing the number of 
VRPs of validator build-up 
papers in terms of the IP prefixes. These are V4. 
We didn't do any V6 at that 
time because V6 was still... For a lot of these 
years, we only had any V6. So 
there's one reason why we didn't do V6. And this 
one is showing the number of 
ASFs. So that's a major device. It's still small, 
but it's actually growing 
pretty fast, as you see. Right NCBC is 
specifically... If you look at it, it's 
growing really fast. APNIC is Asia-Pacific. 
LATNIC is... I forgot. Latin 
America. Right is Europe. And then there's Asian. 
Latin America. And then 
there's U.S., sorry. North America, as you know. 
APHRINIC is Africa. So five 
RARs. This one exists today, and there... That 
actually holds the RPKI 
database. Okay. Sometimes mistakes happen. So you 
see a spike here, and then it 
drops. Mistakes. So that's something that you 
need to be careful about. Because 
there's only five RARs, any mistake will show up 
as a huge drop. So there's not 
much surprise here. So there are pros and cons 
here. So if any of these RARs 
make a mistake in their database, pretty much 
RPKI goes down the drain. But as 
long as they're doing things right, then you get 
security. Lots of security. 
This is showing DGP announcement code by VRP. The 
Akamai data only starts from 
here, because we don't have any data from this 
point onwards. It's another way 
of saying it's only by 2017, Akamai thought that 
it was interesting to look at 
RPKI announcements, because that's when things 
started getting a lot of 
adoption. It actually starts as early as 2011. 
But around 2015, 2017, things 
started getting better. The build is very 
positive. There's some more details 
about adoption, but for the most part, it's 
pretty good. Nothing like we have 
seen before. You know how long we've been 
complaining about V4 running out of 
space and arguing for V6? When was IPv6 
introduced, or started getting 
deployed? I'm sorry, what? In the late 90s? I 
think at least 15 years, more 
than 15 years. I think 90s is actually correct. 
Yeah, that's what he said. And 
it's still, I think, two, three years ago, they 
passed single percentage 
adoption, right? So I think until then, you know, 
like I told you, it's no 
joke, we get excited when you show two percent 
adoption. When it was six 
percent adoption, which was still when I was 
finishing grad school, people were 
very happy. They were like, oh, IPv6 is going to 
take over the world. And I 
think right now we are about 11 or 12 percent, if 
I remember correctly. But 
maybe the numbers are changing fast. One of the 
things that is actually 
threatening the, not threatening, impeding the 
adoption of V6 is the V4 market 
that I talked about. It was 1995. 1995? Yeah. 
Okay, thanks. And we're still, 
you know, there's a lot of traffic now going over 
V6. So in terms of adoption 
of V6, the percentage is still small. But in 
terms of traffic over V6, it's 
really high. How could that be? I'm sorry, what? 
Yeah, who in the cool kids do 
you think? Google? What's the other one? 
Facebook? Yes, yes. Actually, the 
first one is Facebook. But whether you believe it 
or not, Facebook actually was 
one of the prime movers of V6. How you look at 
it, they move a lot of junk, 
right? A lot of traffic. So cat videos and stuff, 
yes. Does the fact that it's, 
like, fewer... We can take a break for five 
minutes. I was going to say, does 
the fact that it's fewer organizations and less 
traffic make it more deceptive 
that IPv6 is more adopted than it actually looks 
like? It depends on how you 
look at it. So, for instance, if I tell you that 
RTKR is used only by a few 
networks, or a few services, so those few 
services can be most traffic, then it 
doesn't look that good. You don't really run 
these measurements from your 
laptop, you know, so you have servers. And then 
you change the MAC address of 
your server, the firewall or the switch. You can 
configure the switch to say, 
this MAC is not supposed to be used. That's easy. 
Same way, you know, for 
instance, I use detect power poisoning or 
spoofing in a network. It's very 
simple to configure a rule these days saying, 
this is not supposed to happen. 
So, you have very simple rules. So, yeah, if you 
change MAC address, then they 
know that. They'll come after you. So what we 
used to do, what's a common 
practice is, before we run measurements, what we 
do is, there are a couple of 
servers that I own, from which, you know, we 
launch these measurements. We 
always do, they keep the servers the same 
regardless of which student runs the 
project, so that admins can point out, ah, this 
is a notorious problem, right? 
And we also run a web server on that particular 
IP address, a port 80, not a 
port 40, as in like a very simple HTTP web 
server. Because whoever is on the 
other side, for instance, the network 
administrators don't like measurements. I 
mean, they don't want to see things, they don't 
want to see, for whatever 
reason, they consider it as a nuisance. And so, 
when you see your logs, 
depending on how informed of a network admin you 
are, when you see something is 
in your logs, you'll be like, oh, what is this 
TCP packet, or what is this ping 
packet? So you want to look at the source 
address, and then usually what you do 
is you put the source address in your browser. If 
you put an address in your 
browser, you know, it looks for the port 80 or 
port 443, so by running a web 
server on that particular IP address, by giving 
them what project we are 
running, you know, they'll not complain. Usually 
the opposite thing happens. 
Because we ran this, you know, we have this very 
simple HTTP page that says, 
oh, you're looking for, all we are trying to do, 
and this is what we did, we 
said, oh, it's a very simple scan, and all it's 
trying to do is it's trying to 
do an HTTP handshake. So it fetches the base 
page, and it's not even fetching 
the entire page, it's just fetching the headers. 
Why is that interesting? Well, 
one of the HTTP response headers basically tells 
you what server stack you're 
running. And by looking at that, I could infer a 
lot of things about the 
software behind the scenes. And that's of 
tremendous interest. So we put up 
this web page, and then we ran this, and some of 
the complaints that we got 
were ridiculous. There's a network operator who 
claimed that by going to the 
web server and fetching these headers, we have 
made them incur a costly 
bandwidth expense. But this was nothing. But 
you're just fetching the headers 
one single time. Yes. That's like, what, 200 
bytes per second? I mean, every 
day. 200 bytes per day. Exactly. But this is 
nothing. I have friends in Germany 
where this issue takes a completely different 
form. People have tried to sue 
some friends of mine, saying, oh, this 
constitutes a privacy violation. What? 
But it's hilarious. So if you don't put any 
information, sometimes you can get 
away. But if you don't, then your own network 
administrators don't like you. If 
you do put up, then sometimes you encounter 
unwanted... But someday, I'll put 
up this, and then I'll post a link on the site. 
It's hilarious the kind of 
responses we get. By the way, the interesting 
part is the complaints that are 
coming from some of the biggest networks in the 
world. You would expect that 
someone who's the network admin for, say, a large 
network like KTM knows when 
they're looking at a ping probe what that ping 
probe would mean. And some of 
the claims that they have in their email 
complaints, it inspires no confidence. 
You can share some of those. Yeah, that's what 
I'm saying. I'll try to put it 
up. There's actually a paper about some of these 
complaints that people have 
received. Network measurements could be construed 
as abusive, as a nuisance, 
because it does... You could actually, arguably, 
depending on how large the 
network is, you could pose a small amount of 
threat because it's still a load. 
These days, if you know the tools of your money, 
you could increase the load on 
their servers, on their routers, let's say by up 
to 1% or 2%. That still is a 
big thing. So they have a right to complain, but 
again, it depends on what 
level you start complaining. So when you look at 
these claims, especially 
people, when they're asking you to pay money, 
that's where you trust your 
assumptions. Anyway, RTKR validation. I'm going 
to quickly go over them again. 
I'll introduce you to both later. RTKR was 
introduced in 2008, but you see the 
graphs that I showed you only start from 2011, 
because that's when deployment 
actually began. And it's the same paper. The VTT 
announcement validity. So I'm 
showing the VRP. For instance, AS1103. Again, we 
use VRP. It looks something 
like this. It will say AS1103. This is the origin 
of the owner. It will say the 
prefix. You don't see the slash notation. That's 
because the network part is 
here. And the prefix size is actually what 
follows. It's a 16 and 16, which 
means that VU is claiming that... I don't know if 
this is what VU is 
announcing. I don't even know if the VU prefix 
actually supports RTKR. I don't 
know. But suppose it supports it. It looks 
something like this. Because 
education institutes usually, based on 
subnetworks, you don't need to 
disaggregate. You don't really care. Because 
disaggregation comes into picture 
only when you're thinking about fine-grained 
control over the traffic. So 
suppose I pair with AT&T. I pair with KPN. I pair 
with Deutsche Telekom. And I 
have a large slash 16. And I'm paying a lot of 
money for, let's say, the 
Deutsche Telekom. Usually it's very expensive. 
Compared to the other two, what 
I could do is I could break my large prefix into 
smaller ones and only 
announce, let's say, the smaller one to Deutsche 
Telekom. So this is how you 
control. You can't typically control what 
networks will accept your 
announcement because you don't have control over 
that because it depends on 
their VGP process. They could have simply a local 
preference value that's 
saying, you know what? Whenever I receive an 
advertisement from Deutsche 
Telekom, I'm going to accept it. They could have 
that. So you can't control 
what people accept, but you can control what you 
announce. When you announce a 
slash 16, you don't know for sure whether the 
slash 16 that you announce via 
AT&T, is that what someone else will accept or 
whether the one they announce 
over KPN, is that what they'll accept. But what 
you do know for sure is if I 
announce a slash 16 through AT&T and a slash 24 
via Deutsche Telekom, Deutsche 
Telekom can't send me anything more than the 
slash 24 because I didn't announce 
a route. So that's how aggregation and 
disaggregation works. So you already 
know this ASN draw a prefix, the prefix... Oh, 
it's slightly off. So if the 
router gets an announcement that says this is a 
prefix, this is the size, this 
is the AS, this is valid because it matches all 
the values in. If it gets 
something like this, by the way, AS1103 is still 
allowed to announce this 
because the slash 24 is actually a subnet of the 
slash 16. So this is a term 
that you might have already encountered. So this 
is a supernet of this or this 
is a subnet of this. But this will actually fail 
in RPKI because you don't have 
the VRP action. In VRP's max length is actually 
16, not 24. Because the 
comparison is always with the 16. This one is 
also invalid because the AS 
doesn't match. So if some other AS, let's say 
1104, announces a slash 16, slash 
16 matches, the prefix matches, but the AS number 
doesn't match. So that's also 
invalid. This one is unknown because AS1103, you 
have it in your VRP. This 
prefix, oh wait, why is it unknown? Oh, the 30 
and 37. So this is 37, this is 
30. Unless there is another VRP that actually 
claims that slash 16 as theirs, 
you can't really say anything about this prefix. 
Just because you can't find an 
RPKI object that corresponds to an announcement 
doesn't mean that it's invalid. 
So usually we put it in the bucket of unknowns. 
So this is what I said, routers 
really can't drop it because that's scary, that's 
dangerous. But is this 
propagated? Is this one propagated? Today it is 
propagated, it's still 
propagated. Because just because it's unknown you 
can't really drop it. But 
different networks could have different behavior. 
RPKI is not part of BGP. So 
the correct answer to your question is BGP will 
propagate it, but you are 
allowed, technically speaking, as a network 
provider to say that my validator 
claims that this is not known. I don't have a VRP 
supporting it. So you could 
drop it, but no one will. Invalid, maybe people 
will drop it, I think some 
networks do drop. Unknowns, no one will drop. A 
lot of networks don't support 
RPKI. This is again a timeline which is showing 
percentage of unique RPKI 
invalid advertisements. Invalid basically means 
that we are legitimately wrong. 
So initially large fractions of announcements are 
invalid, approximately a 
fourth match the ASM but not the RPKI. This is 
something that you were supposed 
to expect, right? Any protocol that gets 
deployed, there will be a lot of 
configuration errors. There's a famous saying in 
networking, almost 80% of the 
time we spend time in trying to fix the 
configuration errors. Only 20% of the 
time we don't do anything useful. That's still 
true today. Most of networking 
research is about trying to troubleshoot an 
outage, troubleshoot an issue, and 
pinpointing the root cause of that issue. If you 
have great solutions for that, 
because this is a distributed problem, and it's 
trying to troubleshoot 
something in a large distributed system, that's 
really hard. We don't have 
visibility to every aspect of the system. If you 
have a great idea, you can 
publish it, or even better, you can launch a 
company and make money with it. 
Somewhere along the line, of course, things 
improved due to education and 
awareness. This is basically almost all of the 
right NCC efforts. Like I said, 
they did a lot of hand-holding to different 
network providers throughout the 
world. That's why you have the sharp decline.

further increases in invalids. This is also 
partially because IXP started 
adopting RPKI. IXP, like I said, you can imagine 
this to be like a cafe where 
network providers go and deploy their routers so 
they could peer with each 
other. AMSIX is one of the largest IXP. IXP 
stands for Internet Exchange Fund. 
AMSIX is one. London has one. There is a very 
large exchange called DKEX, which 
I believe is in Frankfurt. That's another large 
one. IXPs are just a hub for 
networks to peer with one another. But they could 
run a validator. So IXPs, if 
you think about it, logically speaking, this is 
an IXP, right? So if you have a 
room like this, you secure it to a point that no 
one can, because it has to be 
in a secure facility. Physically, you secure 
access to this premise, and then 
what you do is you buy one of the most expensive 
switches that you can offer. 
You put the switch in the middle, routers go all 
around the switch, and 
basically, routers plug into the switch, and you 
are just configuring in the 
switch who is allowed to exchange traffic with 
whom. It's a layer two fabric, 
okay? So they're all in the same subnet, all the 
routers. But that does not 
mean that everyone exchanges traffic with 
everyone, right? Exchanging traffic 
with one another basically means that you're 
paying money, right? Someone has 
to pay money to someone. So exchanges are not 
free, but the IXP facilitates for 
you to do the exchange. So IXP, you pay a fixed 
fee every month or every year. 
It's a reasonable amount, and IXPs actually, this 
is how they run, right? So 
IXPs, in order to increase, make it, incentivize 
networks to come to their IXP, 
they'll do one of the other things, right? So for 
instance, they'll say, ours 
is the most secure facility. People do care about 
that. Ours is cheaper, or it 
provides, we provide 24-7 service in case your 
router goes down, you'll have it 
rebooted and things like that. One of the other 
things that they started doing 
towards like 2017, 2018, they said, look, we have 
a switch. There's nothing 
stopping us from, you know, building, deploying a 
server close to the actual 
gate. Every announcement that I receive, I'm 
gonna check whether that is valid. 
If it is not, hopefully you'll drop it, but at 
least I'll alert, right? And so 
there are companies that, again, nobody drops 
things. Dropping packets is 
usually not a good thing. In this case, you're 
dropping announcements, so 
that's even dangerous. But what they did was 
this. They built up a service, I 
forgot which one did it, but they built up a 
portal that network providers 
would actually look up, and in that portal, what 
they did was, it's like a wall 
of shame, right? So they keep updating, you know, 
which prefix was invalid or 
which prefix was unknown, right? And it was for 
all network providers could 
see. So this kind of shame does work, you know, 
and it did help. So not as much 
as the wipes efforts, but still helps, yeah. So 
you can actually offload the 
RPKI to an ISP. No, no, no, it's not offloading. 
This is like a value-added 
service that they provide, right? So it's like 
saying, look, by the way, if 
you're peering at my network, you know, you can 
rest assured you're never gonna 
see an announcement that's invalid. And you're 
like, oh, that's great, which 
means that I can slack on my intimidation. That's 
pretty much what it's done. 
So this is more about, like, is it still possible 
to get started as an IXP? 
Like, you have no ISPs, like, hooking in, and 
then, like, is there a minimum 
amount? Because if you're an IXP and you get one, 
you'll just have one ISP. The 
first one is all that, first, well, not one, 
first few is all that matters. But 
if you start an IXP, first of all, you need to 
find a location. It all boils 
down to simple economics, right? So why do IXPs 
exist? Because if the AMSICS 
one doesn't exist, think about it, AT&T peers 
with KPN. KPN is a very large 
network. AT&T peers with KPN and AMSICS, okay? 
You can actually go to AMSICS' 
webpage and it'll actually tell you what networks 
are there. It'll also, you 
remember last class I said there's something 
called a looking-glass service. 
Once you figure out what networks are there, you 
can figure out, AT&T has a lot 
of looking-glass servers, KPN has looking-glass 
servers. You can hop onto one 
of these looking-glass servers and see who you're 
pairing with. And looking at 
the peers, you can actually figure out, are they 
pairing at AMSICS, okay? So if 
not for AMSICS, AT&T or KPN had to lay a fiber 
from wherever they were. 
Probably AT&T was somewhere in, I think there was 
one in Paris or close to 
Paris. Someone had to, one of these networks had 
to lay a cable all the way 
from Paris to Amsterdam. It's expensive, right? 
And like I said, in the US, 
it's extremely hard, not to mention it's got so 
much politics, right? Because 
the right to dig a hole for a laying down a 
conduit by the side of the road, 
he's smiling because he probably knows what I'm 
saying. And getting that right 
is extremely hard, okay? Sometimes you might have 
to negotiate with the local 
government. And you might think municipalities, 
local governments, they would 
be happy to give you access to it. No, no, no, 
not in the US. I mean, Europe is 
not that progressive as well. There are countries 
that would, for good reasons, 
they'll say, look, how about we lay the conduit? 
The government lays the 
conduit. You basically just provide us the money 
to lease the conduit for a 
year and a half, right? That seems to work well 
in theory, but sometimes what 
will happen is that people sign an exclusive 
access to a conduit. Because if 
you are AT&T, again, let me not pick AT&T, let's 
pick some other cogent, let's 
say, a level three. If you're a large network, 
you have money, right? There are 
only two things you can do, right? Either you 
always innovate at a pace that 
your competitor cannot catch up with, or what you 
do is you try your best to 
make sure that you slow them down. And 
unfortunately, a lot of networks do the 
second half. So they'll get exclusive access, or 
in the US, what they do is 
they, anyone who digs the first conduit usually 
enjoys a lot of privilege, 
right? So one of the biggest problems in the US 
is the poll fees. So whoever 
puts a poll on, they lease the land from 
municipality, what they buy from the 
municipality, and then they own the poll and the 
land that sits on it. After 
that, they can charge whatever they want to 
whoever wants to carry on cables 
next to them. So often you're dealing with the 
cable provider, the telephone 
provider, needs to pay the power company for 
access in line. And the power 
company is like, well, we rated this poll to hold 
20 times the weight of any of 
your cables because we're a power company. So 
you're going to pay for some of 
that capex. Yeah. For a long time, and again, the 
US has had a very notorious 
president in the past, but before the Trump got 
control of the country, there 
was this discussion about regulating the internet 
as a public utility. Because 
if you do that, correct me if I'm wrong, the US 
law states that you can't, 
regardless of where you are, as long as it's in 
the United States, the 
government has the obligation to provide you 
service. And they can't 
discriminate, they can't do all these neutrality 
rules, they can't set caps, 
there must be some basic guidelines deployed. It 
looks like it's going to make 
some progress and eventually it'll happen, but 
again, the four years. The 
details of this are very complicated because so 
common carriers in the US are 
complimented under a specific title, the Civil 
Rights Act, which does not 
guarantee that service has to be available. It 
guarantees that everywhere 
service is available, you cannot improve that 
service until equal service 
exists. I see. Okay, sorry. Thanks for that. They 
would be obligated to build 
out service to everywhere within their 
jurisdiction until such time as equal 
service is achieved and then they can improve it. 
So I don't know if many of 
you might have followed Google's efforts, right? 
To pay fiber optic cable, I 
think it started in Kansas. It started in Kansas, 
Overland Park, Kansas. So I 
think at that time it was about one gigabit per 
second. And you can actually 
easily search this online. The reaction from some 
of the network providers were 
hilarious, right? They resisted, right? They 
fought with, you know, some of the 
claims are like how it hurts the economy because 
Google is making it faster and 
providing cheaper services. It's hilarious. I'll 
say one more thing and then 
we'll switch topics. So I'm very interested in 
trying to find out, you know, in 
terms of research, what it takes to lower the 
latency between any two arbitrary 
points in the internet. And I've done a lot of 
work at this. And one of the 
things that, you know, I did a few years ago was, 
you know, this was a 
multi-year effort. We tried to see, could you use 
microwave networks to 
actually transmit packets between two locations? 
Okay. This technology existed 
in the 60s, but it has improved quite a lot. And 
by the way, why microwave? Why 
not something else? The point about microwave is 
that if you transmit a signal 
from one point to another using microwaves, 
assuming, you know, it has to be a 
straight line, you know, visible to each other. 
But if you do this, the 
advantage you get is that you get to transmit 
packets between those two 
destinations at the speed of light. That's the 
best you could do. Okay. Now you 
wonder why you care about that. Latency matters. 
Latency is one of the hardest 
things to improve, and it matters a lot. So you 
could ask the question, right? 
So today we have the internet. It seems to work 
reasonably well. The question 
is, how slow is it? You could measure it in one 
of many ways. One of the ways 
that we did it was we said, look, you know, we'll 
take any two locations in the 
world, right? I have a server here, let's say 
somewhere in the US. I have a 
server somewhere here. And you pick arbitrary 
servers and you can plug into it. 
And you simply do, send a probe from one server 
to another. Simplest probe 
could be a ping, could be something even simpler 
than that, right? You could 
write your own custom protocols, but you know, 
it's a very small packet. All 
the endpoint is doing is just replying to that, 
just a simple echo protocol. 
And then what you do is you simply say, okay, And 
then what you do is you 
simply say, okay, you know, I know these two 
locations. I can compute what is 
the fastest time doing, you know, that I could 
send data over between these two 
locations. Question is, how far am I, right? And 
you can also say, look, if I 
transmit signal over fiber, fiber optic cable is 
glass. So glass refractive 
index is slightly higher than air. Air's 
refractive index is one. So when 
signals travel over glass, the refractive index 
of the medium causes the speed 
of the data to slow down. So it's about 33% 
reduction, right? So if you have 
two points, instead of transmitting over the air, 
if you use fiber optic cable, 
you're already incurring a 33% slowdown, okay? So 
we also computed saying, 
look, for those two locations, I'll figure out if 
a fiber conduit exists 
between those two locations. That's very hard, 
but we did find that. And we 
could say, suppose you have a conduit, are we at 
least close to the limits 
possible with the fiber conduit, right? We're 
very far. So we're about like 
anywhere between, in the best case scenario, 
we're about 30 times off from the 
lowest possible latency that we could achieve. 
And sometimes it could be two 
orders of magnitude higher than what we could 
achieve. And this is what we 
observed. And so we looked at microwaves. Why? 
Because like I said, microwaves 
have improved a lot. And more importantly, if you 
look at, there's one 
particular corridor in the U.S., I call it as in 
like one particular location. 
This is one in Chicago, all the way to New 
Jersey. That particular pathway had 
improved over a period of, let's say, 10 years. 
The latency had dropped by, you 
know, closer and closer. And right now it's 
operating almost near the speed of 
light. Who cares about, you know, someplace in, 
you know, New Jersey has a big 
battery in the U.S. New Jersey and Chicago, maybe 
not many. The reason why that 
particular corridor improved was because of stock 
exchanges. Chicago Mercantile 
Exchange and the New Jersey Stock Exchange and 
these were connected using 
microwave. There's a book about it. If you 
thought that, you know, you have, I 
mean, in general, we shouldn't think that we have 
any advantage over high 
volume or high frequency trading companies. But 
if you look at the networks 
that they're using, there is no chance, right, 
you know, the general public has 
any edge over them. And what I mean by that is, 
by the time, let's assume that, 
you know, in Chicago Mercantile Exchange where 
you have information about a 
particular stock, it could be, you know, details 
about the number of orders or 
demand for a particular item. And you know that, 
you know, let's say, you're 
trying to execute a stock purchase or a sell 
order based on that information in 
New Jersey, okay, imagine that every time you try 
to execute that trade, the 
high frequency trading entities or the 
organization, which are anyway issuing 
orders in bulk and the volume matters because 
matching happens based on volume 
too. But ignoring that, they will receive, 
typically, as in when I say 
typically, 99.99% of the time, they will receive 
this information at least two 
milliseconds before you. And the two milliseconds 
matter, okay. So, we tried to 
design a network to try to see, you know, how we 
could design a network using 
microgrids, which is very interesting, but in the 
process of doing it, we 
wanted to see towers, so he was mentioning. And 
because towers actually, you 
know, once you figure out, for instance, if you 
own a piece of land, somewhere 
between this line between Chicago and New Jersey, 
okay, and you, you know, you 
put up a pole, okay, and the pole is such that it 
somehow makes the, you know, 
the distance of the straight line between New 
Jersey and Chicago, you know, 
even straighter than what it already is, then you 
can make money. And I'm not 
kidding. There was one piece of land, somewhere 
in the middle of, I think, 
Illinois. Nothing in, you know, you know, as far 
as your eye could see. It was 
barren land with one pole, okay. It sold for 
close to, like, $17 million in a 
small stretch of land, not very large piece of 
land, all because of that one 
pole, because it reduced latency by a factor of 
0.05. Yes. I have a very good 
friend who works at one of these sectors because 
he really knows what the lies 
on the exact corridor you're talking about, and 
he was telling me a story about 
how there, in New Jersey, there is identical 
exchanges. There is one exchange 
in, like, data center A, and then there's data 
center B and C next to it. And 
data center C is, like, literally across the 
street from data center B, but 
space in data center B is enormously more 
expensive, because the radio wave 
hits it one and a half microseconds before data 
center B and C. There is a 
segment of network in the south of UK that uses 
what is called a hollow fiber. 
So it's like fiber optic cable, except that the 
middle of the fiber is hollow, 
right? And so, so basically, you get the 
protection of fiber, because microwave 
is really bad, right? You know, if there is a 
cross link of, you know, some 
leaves in a tree, you know, that affects 
microwave, rain affects microwave. So 
there's also companies that do free space optics, 
like lasers, that has other 
advantages and disadvantages. It's terrible when 
it's falling, right? But 
again, reliability is an issue, but these 
companies will pay anything, even if 
there is a loss of, you know, you remember TCP 
loss you were talking about. 
Even if there's a loss of 40%, okay, which means, 
you know, 40% of the time, 
the microwave packets will get dropped. They 
don't care, because at 60% of the 
time, if you can get ahead of the market by five 
milliseconds, it matters. When 
I actually came to Amsterdam, it was very funny. 
Someone figured out that, you 
know, when I, you know, they put up my page and 
all that. There's a company 
here, a few blocks down the road, Jump Trading, 
or something. Octifer. Huh? 
Octifer. No, not Octifer. I think it's called 
Jump Trading, and I didn't know 
this. So I, you know, I was approached by someone 
who actually told me about 
this Holofiber. They said that, you know, we're 
already using up this Holofiber 
in locations here, and there was also one 
particular location, small segment, 
like 20 kilometers or something in France. This 
Holofiber is still 
experimental. And they said, could you actually 
help us, you know, design a 
couple of links so that, you know, we could 
reduce latency by some margin? And 
the price that they were willing to pay for that 
is phenomenal. No, no, this is 
something, you know, very serious, right? So if 
you could reduce latency by 
even one, I mean, one millisecond is huge. By a 
few tens of microseconds, you 
could easily make hundreds of millions of 
dollars. Right? So keep thinking 
about it. Anyway. The specific wrong is, and 
specific basically means that if 
your max length, as in, if your advertisements 
are narrow or smaller than what 
is allowed, then that is also wrong. Missing max 
length, as in the computers, 
they try to, we don't know what max length is, 
and then, you know, they 
configured it wrongly so that you have these two 
issues. Wrong ASN 
announcements. So this is something, you know, an 
ISP, you know, gives out 
prefixes or, you know, provides transit to 
multiple other networks, right? Not 
just users. And sometimes they can actually 
misconfigure things because they're 
confused which network is what. Sometimes 
networks change hands, change 
organizations. And because of this, again, 
nothing to do with, you know, 
anything technical, but because of policies or 
business arrangement changes, 
you know, lots of errors could happen. And some 
of these errors could take a 
long time to fix. There was once a study that 
showed that, you know, that 
looked at every single well-known bug in the 
Linux kernel and tried to see when 
was the earliest time, you know, they would spot 
it in the code base. And it 
showed, like, some of the bugs had remained in 
the kernel for, like, eight 
years or something like that. It was ridiculous. 
Similarly, in networking, you 
can always ask, I mean, this is a little more 
embarrassing because knowing that 
a problem exists, how long does it take to fix 
it? Sometimes it takes quite 
long. 17 months or so. Okay, so mismatches 
between ASNs and the 
customer-provider relationship. Yeah, people 
forget to update their ASNs and 
their ROAs, just like IRRs. The reason why IRRs 
are stale is because when 
you're pairing.

you don't have any incentive to update the IRR. 
Same way, I mean, again, there 
is no hard fail, so there is no incentive for you 
to do. Okay, let's skip 
through these. Okay, these are all just showing 
different kinds of 
announcements. And the mistakes happen depending 
on the AS that commits a 
mistake. You don't get one or two prefixes that 
are affected, you get thousands 
of prefixes because the ROAs actually are 
encapsulated or combine all the 
prefixes that you own. This is showing the 
lifespan of other mistakes. Some 
things last for over a year. It's very hard to 
say when you have an invalid 
announcement whether this is really a hijack or 
not. And especially when you're 
an academic, you wanna be very careful about 
where you point fingers. So we 
found something in the paper has some interesting 
details about it that some 
actually think it looks like an attack and some 
question it. Anyway, but there 
are more details in the paper I'd like you to 
take a look at it. But long story 
short, RPKI is quite widely used. It's quite well 
getting adopted. It shows a 
lot of promise. It only does all the invalidation 
in bad facts, so it still has 
issues. Someone could still take over that and 
there's nothing you can do. 
Let's quickly cover spoofing. I'm not gonna get 
into the details. This is also 
about the study that I was not part of. Although 
it comes, I wanna discuss 
spoofing in the context of BGP because knowing 
BGP, knowing RPKI, it helps you 
think about spoofing reasons. Spoofing is the 
number one reason why most 
attacks exist. So for instance, today, if you are 
thinking about DDoS attacks, 
amplification attacks, reflection attacks, they 
all exist because an attacker 
is able to masquerade as someone else and send a 
request, right? Or have the 
responses go to someone else, right? And those 
all happen because you are 
trying to send traffic pretending to be someone 
else. The question is, why is 
it so hard for, if I'm the network and I have an 
attacker inside my network 
trying to send a packet to my network, to someone 
else, so that the response 

from that entity goes to the victim, why can't I, 
as the packet goes out, take 
a look at the packet and say, this cannot be true 
because I don't own this 
address, right? It's as simple as that. If you 
could do that, if every network 
would do, this is called egress scheduling, 
right? As a packet ingresses my 
network, I do a simple check to see, is this 
address owned by me? If it is not, 
I drop it. Similarly, you could do ingress 
filtering. As a packet enters my 
network, and I try to see, is this something, you 
know, towards my, any of the 
prefixes that I know? Or, you could also ask the 
question, as a packet 
ingresses, you could say, I know the link over 
which this packet is coming, 
right? And I know that particular network, and I 
know what that network is, 
which prefix that network owns. So if this packet 
is not legitimate, you could 
drop it. So you could do ingress filtering or 
ingress filtering. If you do any 
of those, the internet would be a far safer 
place, but there is a negative 
result here. There is no spoofing filtering, 
nobody does. The question is why? 
Again, this is very simple. An attacker tries to 
send, you know, here it says 

the attacker's address is 1.2.3.4. This network A 
knows that this can't 
possibly be true, right? You can't send a packet 
from within that network when 
the author fixes this. The question is why not 
restart it? This is ingress 
filtering, and the borrower out there does it, 
it's called ingress filtering. 
There's a lot of work on that spoofing. How 
prevalent is spoofing? There's a 
study, it shows that, you know, in 35% of the 
networks, you know, networks 
worldwide, you could spoof any address you want, 
nobody would care. The only 
networks that usually do spoofing, spoofing 
filtering, are very small networks 
like education institutions, corporate networks, 
because they're liars, because 

they want to make sure that, you know, they don't 
do anything that'll make 
others point fingers at them, right? So there is 
this paper that is written by 
some of my very good colleagues. What they did 
was something different. They 
said, look, you know, forget, you know, 
prevalence of spoofing and all that. 
The question is, who does any sort of spoofing 
and why is it so hard, right? So 
they tried to actually come up with a few 
approaches by which you could figure 
out whether a given packet and its address, 
whether it's spoofed or not, and 
then they tried to see how much of a difference 
and then they tried to see how 
much of, what's the volume of spoof traffic that 
exists? So in general, you 
want to do packet filtering and regress. 

Typically, whenever you want to do any 
sort of filtering, you always want to do it as 
early as possible, right? 
Because any time the packet spends in your 
network and the packet, if you say 
the packet has no place in the network, it means 
that it's already, you've 
already spent money carrying the packet. So the 
earlier you drop, the better 
you are. Um, filtering requires prefix lists, 
right? So BGP has a mechanism by 
which you could say, you could implement what is 
called as ACLs, right? Access 
Control Lists. If you don't know what that is, 
you could simply think of, you 
know, setting filters in a router. So it simply 
says, you know, if the packet 
doesn't belong to any of these prefixes, drop it. 
But the problem is that 
there's no reliable automatic mechanism for 
creating these lists, right? Now, 
how do you create a list? How do you know what is 
not allowed and what is 
allowed? What is legitimate, so to speak? Are 
spoofing attacks relevant? So 
they did this study. So there is a huge mailing 
list, strongly recommended not 
to subscribe to it. It's, you know, a public 
mailing list, anyone can join. 
It's called NAML. It's also a large organization, 
North American Network 
Operators Group. And this is where, you know, 
it's like one place where all 
network operators actually, you know, discuss 
different things. And it's 
usually, you know, the volume of the interactions 
is very high. But the nice 
thing is that you can actually go, you know, 
sometimes post simple questions 
and they'll answer. You know, you'll get answers, 
you know, from the horse's 
mouth, right? So you can ask questions like, hey, 
you know, how likely is it 
that, you know, you will see spoofing attacks, 
meaning attacks where you don't 
for sure the packet is legitimately spoofed. And 
they did this study and what 
they found is 70% of the network operators 
suffered spoofing attacks. 70% 
worldwide. And 50% complained to peers about 
filtering, right? Again, notice 
that they're saying, you know, go to the peers, 
and then they complain, saying, 
ah, when you load this packet into my network, 
this is not nice. This you will 
see almost all the time. Nearly a quarter of them 
do not check the validity of 
source IP addresses, as in IP, you know, traffic 
that is originating in their 
network, they don't check. Filtering more common 
at the ingress than at the 
egress, which is really interesting.

Yes. How 
would you be sure that, if you 
have, how would you be sure that the packet in 
effect did originate in your 
network, but how do you differentiate between 
that or if it's transmitted 
through your network? Because if it's transmitted 
through your network, you can 
very well have an IP that's somewhere else. 
Excellent, excellent question. 
You've hit the nail on its head, which is why, 
you know, it's very hard, which 
is why nobody does it. Filtering more common at 
the ingress than at the egress. 

The 70% filter, well-known, should not be routed 
to ingress. Now, there's 
something, it's called a bogon, okay? The term 
that they use is called a bogon, 
and it means these are addresses or prefixes for 
which no route exists, okay? 

If you, the way to think about it is this. If you 
take a look at all prefixes 
all around the globe, from the outer region of 
the globe, you compile a list of 
prefixes. As you get more and more prefixes, you 
can keep aggregating them into 
larger and larger amounts. If you had 
advertisements for every single address 
or every single prefix, what you will end up with 
is 0.0.0.0.0, right? Because 
you keep aggregating everything, you cover the 
entire E4 space, but that won't 
happen, because there are ranges that are 
private, which you didn't see in the 
internet. Obviously, there are ranges that, you 
know, are not supposed to be 
advertised, or no one has advertised, or no one, 
you know, they're not 
allocated, things like that. So, there are a set 
of addresses for which you 
generally, you know, don't have any routes. These 
are called bogons, there's a 
list. There'll never be an, some are reserved, 
some are experimental, so you'll 
never see that. And this list is very small, 
often very small, and well-known, 
and the list doesn't change, okay? So, if you're 
wondering why 70% filter 
well-known, this thing, that's because that list 
is very small and doesn't 
change. It should not be out there, that means. 
20% like customer prefixes, 

customer-specific filters, meaning if you have a 
network and you have large 
customers, no one cares about end users, large 
customers of, you know, an 
education institution or a corporate network, 
then you know that prefixes get 
well-defined, and you actually implement filters 
for that. Some persons do not 
filter, when I say do not filter, they won't, no 
matter what you do. Let's go 
over a couple of more things from last time. 

Filtering strategies with egress, 
26% filter non-routable traffic, makes sense if 
you try to egress traffic that 
is non-routable. 50%, once again, is 
customer-specific, this is the easiest 
thing to do. 24% do not filter. Concerning 
traffic that are originating within 
the network, 65% filter before it reaches egress. 

Now, the question that you 
asked, how do you differentiate between traffic 
that is originating in your 
network versus transit? Depending on the kind of 
network that you operate, 
there is a way to differentiate it, right? So for 
instance, it'll become 
obvious when I go further, which I don't have 
time for this particular lecture, 
depending on how large your network is, how many 
customer networks you have, it 
becomes easier or difficult to figure out what is 
exactly the prefix that you 
want. So for instance, if I own a prefix, let's 
say it's a slash 80, okay? And 
I haven't given out that prefix or any part of 
the prefix to anyone else, okay? 

Which means any traffic that I'm getting from the 
interfaces that are connected 
to my peers, I can easily differentiate that from 
my peers. Whereas if I have 
given out a part of that slash 80, let's say a 
couple of slash 16s to some 
other network, that announcement might come from 
maybe one of my peers because 
BGP is a gossip-based protocol, so you'd never 
know. So now you're suddenly not 
sure, okay, am I allowed to announce it? Is it, 
am I allowed to drop it, 
unblock it, and so on? But in general, if you're 
a transit network, right? 
Looking at the interfaces that you have connected 
to your peers, you really 
can't say much about what is allowed traffic and 
what is not allowed. Because 
if you're a transit, it means that, you know, 
you're in the unfortunate state 
where if you drop traffic, someone is gonna point 
fingers at you because people 
are paying money because you're a transit 
provider. And it's really hard for me 
to say, looking at the traffic, is that network 
allowed to originate that 
traffic? Because we don't know who its customers 
are, who their customers are. 
If I receive a packet that says 1.2.3.4, it could 
be that my neighbor owns that 
prefix, or the neighbor's neighbors own that 
prefix, or so on and so on, right? 
And doing this sort of transitive check on who 
owns that prefix is really hard. 
RTKI helps to some extent, but not so much. We'll 
stop here, we'll continue 
from here the next time. Thank you. Thank you. 
Oh, I want to make a quick 
announcement. Oh, it's the domain that you asked 
a question for. Yes, could you 
give me two minutes? Just wanted to make a quick 
announcement. For the exam, 
there will be about 28 questions. Yes, there will 
be 20 questions, same format 
as your quiz. The current quiz is slightly 
different because I want to make it 
easier to score points. I think they're all basic 
questions this year. But for 
the exam, there will be 20 questions of basic 
level, which means they'll carry 
one point each. There'll be four questions at 
intermediate level, they'll carry 
two points each, and four more at the advanced 
level, they'll carry three 
points each. So you have to score, I think the 
threshold is 5.1, for the final 
exam. So it means you have to score 22 points, 
which means you have to, at the 
very basic level, I expect you to clear all the 
20 basic questions and one of 
any other levels. I don't know what's the format, 
are they the easy ones, 
multiple choice, or? All of them are multiple 
choice. Oh, the whole thing is 
multiple choice, okay. Everything is multiple 
choice.
